C O N F I D E N T I A L PARIS 000348 
 
SIPDIS 
 
SIPDIS 
 
ADDIS FOR USAU 
 
E.O. 12958: DECL: 02/27/2018 
TAGS: PREL, PGOV, MASS, MARR, CN, FR 
SUBJECT: COMOROS:  FRANCE TO ASSIST TANZANIA, NOT SENEGAL; 
WILL NOT SEEK UNSCR 
 
REF: A. STATE 19510 
 
     B. PARIS 308 
 
Classified By: Acting DCM Josiah Rosenblatt, 1.4 (b/d). 
 
1.  (C)  In response to ref A demarche, Beatrice Lederle 
(acting MFA Comoros desk officer) said on February 27 that 
France would provide transportation and logistical support to 
Tanzanian troops slated to participate in military operations 
against Colonel Bacar in Anjouan.  She said that France would 
help transport Tanzanian troops and equipment from Tanzania 
to the Comoros, but not to Anjouan and into combat.  Lederle 
said it did not appear that Senegal was going to participate 
militarily against Bacar, so France expected to assist only 
Tanzania.  Lederle said that France was not seeking a UN 
Security Resolution, which would "take too long."  She said 
that the AU's February 10 declaration on the situation in 
Anjouan served as sufficient legal basis for France's 
offering its services to AU member states willing to 
participate in the mission.  NOTE:  Lederle's MFA colleague, 
Comoros desk officer Jacques Biau, indicated on February 21 
(ref B) that France would seek UNSC authorization for the 
operation, but Lederle was quite clear on February 27 in 
stating that France did not require one.  END NOTE. 
 
2.  (U)  Minimize considered. 
 
 
Please visit Paris' Classified Website at: 
http://www.state.sgov.gov/p/eur/paris/index.c fm 
 
 
STAPLETON